Add TiDB Cloud Terraform Doc (#10563)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/terraform/cluster-resource.md

          + name             = "test1"
          + org_id           = "1372813089189921287"
          + user_count       = 1
        },
      + {
          + cluster_count    = 1
          + create_timestamp = "1640602740"
          + id               = "1372813089189561287"
          + name             = "default project"
          + org_id           = "1372813089189921287"
          + user_count       = 1
        },
    ]

You can apply this plan to save these new output values to the Terraform state, without changing any real infrastructure.

Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

projects = tolist([
  {
    "cluster_count" = 0
    "create_timestamp" = "1649154426"
    "id" = "1372813089191121286"
    "name" = "test1"
    "org_id" = "1372813089189921287"
    "user_count" = 1
  },
  {
    "cluster_count" = 1
    "create_timestamp" = "1640602740"
    "id" = "1372813089189561287"
    "name" = "default project"
    "org_id" = "1372813089189921287"
    "user_count" = 1
  },
])
```

Now, you get all the available projects, copy one of the id you need. Here we use the default project's ID.

## Get cluster spec info with cluster-spec data source

> Before creating a TiDB cluster, you may need to get the available config values (providers, regions and so on.) by cluster-spec Data Source:

Author: I will leave may, because it not necessary step

          "min" = 500
        }
      },
      {
        "node_quantity_range" = {
          "min" = 3
          "step" = 3
        }
        "node_size" = "16C64G"
        "storage_size_gib_range" = {
          "max" = 4096
          "min" = 500
        }
      },
    ])
  }
```

- `cloud_provider` is the cloud provider on which your TiDB cluster is hosted
- `region` is the region of cloud_provider
- `node_quantity_range` shows the min quantity of the node and the step if you want to scale the node
- `node_size` is the size of the node
- `storage_size_gib_range` shows the min and max storage you can set to the node

## Create a dedicated cluster with cluster resource

> Make sure you have set a Project CIDR on TiDB Cloud console first.

Now, you can create a dedicated cluster with the projectId and the spec info:

- Use `resource` block to define the resource of tidbcloud, it consists of the resource type and the resource name. In this example, resource type is `tidbcloud_cluster` and the name is `example_cluster`

Once again, you can find all the supported configs for the data source and resource [here](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest/docs)

> Here I give an example for tidbcloud_cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taking `tidbcloud_cluster` as an example, you can define the resource of TiDB Cloud as follows:
```

```
resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "example_cluster" {
  project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
  name           = "firstCluster"
  cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
  cloud_provider = "AWS"
  region         = "eu-central-1"
  config = {
    root_password = "Your_root_password1."
    port = 4000
    components = {
      tidb = {
        node_size : "8C16G"
        node_quantity : 1
      }
      tikv = {
        node_size : "8C32G"
        storage_size_gib : 500,
        node_quantity : 3
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> Execute `terraform apply`, it is not recommended to use `terraform apply --auto-approve` when you apply a resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the `terraform apply` command. It is not recommended to use `terraform apply --auto-approve` when you apply a resource.
```

      + cloud_provider = "AWS"
      + cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
      + config         = {
          + components     = {
              + tidb = {
                  + node_quantity = 1
                  + node_size     = "8C16G"
                }
              + tikv = {
                  + node_quantity    = 3
                  + node_size        = "8C32G"
                  + storage_size_gib = 500
                }
            }
          + ip_access_list = [
              + {
                  + cidr        = "0.0.0.0/0"
                  + description = "all"
                },
            ]
          + port           = 4000
          + root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
        }
      + id             = (known after apply)
      + name           = "firstCluster"
      + project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
      + region         = "eu-central-1"
      + status         = (known after apply)
    }

Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value: 
```

Terraform will generate an execution plan for you:

> - You can check the diff between the configuration and the state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can check the difference between the configurations and the state.
```

> - You can also see the results of this `apply`: it will add a new resource, and no resource will be changed or destroyed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can also see the results of this `apply`. It will add a new resource, and no resource will be changed or destroyed.
```

> - The `known after apply` shows that you will get the value after `apply`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `known after apply` shows that you will get the value after `apply`.
```

> If everything is in your plan, type the `yes` to continue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everything is in your plan, type `yes` to continue:
```

```
Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value: yes

tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Creating...
tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Creation complete after 1s [id=1379661944630234067]

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

```

> Use `terraform show` or `terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster` to inspect the state of your resource. The former will show all the states (all the resources and the data source).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `terraform show` or `terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster` command to inspect the state of your resource. The former will show all the states (all the resources and the data source).
```

```shell
$ terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster

# tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster:
resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "example_cluster" {
    cloud_provider = "AWS"
    cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
    config         = {
        components     = {
            tidb = {
                node_quantity = 1
                node_size     = "8C16G"
            }
            tikv = {
                node_quantity    = 3
                node_size        = "8C32G"
                storage_size_gib = 500
            }
        }
        ip_access_list = [
            # (1 unchanged element hidden)
        ]
        port           = 4000
        root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
    }
    id             = "1379661944630234067"
    name           = "firstCluster"
    project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
    region         = "eu-central-1"
    status         = "CREATING"
}
```

> The status of the cluster is CREATING, we need to wait until it changes to `AVAILABLE`, it usually takes 10+ minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The status of the cluster is `CREATING`. In this case, you need to wait until it changes to `AVAILABLE`, which usually takes 10 minutes at least.
```

> Once you want to check the status, execute `terraform refresh` to update the state, then use `terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster` to check the status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to check the latest status, run the `terraform refresh` command to update the state, and then run the `terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster` command to display the status.
```

```
$ terraform refresh

tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Refreshing state... [id=1379661944630234067]

$ terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluste

# tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster:
resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "example_cluster" {
    cloud_provider = "AWS"
    cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
    config         = {
        components     = {
            tidb = {
                node_quantity = 1
                node_size     = "8C16G"
            }
            tikv = {
                node_quantity    = 3
                node_size        = "8C32G"
                storage_size_gib = 500
            }
        }
        ip_access_list = [
            # (1 unchanged element hidden)
        ]
        port           = 4000
        root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
    }
    id             = "1379661944630234067"
    name           = "firstCluster"
    project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
    region         = "eu-central-1"
    status         = "AVAILABLE"
}
```

Congratulations. Your cluster is available now.

> ## Change the dedicated cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Modify the Dedicated Tier cluster
```

Reviewer: The Cloud console uses "Modify" as well.

> We can also use terraform to manage the resource. As for cluster resource, we can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Terraform to manage cluster resources as follows:
```

- Increase TiFlash component for the dedicated cluster
- Scale the TiDB cluster
- Pause or resume the cluster

> **Increase TiFlash component**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Increase TiFlash component
```

> First, add tiflash config in components:

Reviewer: Please use 1,2,3 instead of first, then, ....

```
$ terraform apply

tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Refreshing state... [id=1379661944630234067]

Terraform used the selected providers to generate the following execution plan. Resource actions are indicated with the following symbols:
  ~ update in-place

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster will be updated in-place
  ~ resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "example_cluster" {
      ~ config         = {
          ~ components     = {
              + tiflash = {
                  + node_quantity    = 1
                  + node_size        = "8C64G"
                  + storage_size_gib = 500
                }
                # (2 unchanged attributes hidden)
            }
            # (3 unchanged attributes hidden)
        }
        id             = "1379661944630234067"
        name           = "firstCluster"
      ~ status         = "AVAILABLE" -> (known after apply)
        # (4 unchanged attributes hidden)
    }

Plan: 0 to add, 1 to change, 0 to destroy.

Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value: 

```

> Check the plan, you will find tiflash is added. And one resource will be changed after apply. Type `yes`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By checking the plan, you will find that TiFlash is added. And one resource will be changed after `terraform apply`. Type `yes`:
```

```

Use `terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster` to see the status:

```
$ terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster

# tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster:
resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "example_cluster" {
    cloud_provider = "AWS"
    cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
    config         = {
        components     = {
            tidb    = {
                node_quantity = 1
                node_size     = "8C16G"
            }
            tiflash = {
                node_quantity    = 1
                node_size        = "8C64G"
                storage_size_gib = 500
            }
            tikv    = {
                node_quantity    = 3
                node_size        = "8C32G"
                storage_size_gib = 500
            }
        }
        ip_access_list = [
            # (1 unchanged element hidden)
        ]
        port           = 4000
        root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
    }
    id             = "1379661944630234067"
    name           = "firstCluster"
    project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
    region         = "eu-central-1"
    status         = "MODIFYING"
}
```

> The `MODIFYING` status shows the cluster is changing now. Wait for a moment, the status will be changed to `AVAILABLE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `MODIFYING` status indicates that the cluster is changing now. Wait for a moment. The status will be changed to `AVAILABLE`.
```

> **Scale the TiDB cluster**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Scale a TiDB cluster
```

> After the status is `AVAILABLE`, let us try to scale the TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can scale a TiDB cluster when its status is `AVAILABLE`.
```

> Add one node for TiDB and TiFlash, TiKV needs to add at least 3 nodes for its step is 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to add 1 node for TiDB, 3 nodes for TiKV (TiKV needs to add at least 3 nodes if its step is 3), and 1 node for TiFlash, you can update the configurations as follows:
```

```
    components = {
      tidb = {
        node_size : "8C16G"
        node_quantity : 2
      }
      tikv = {
        node_size : "8C32G"
        storage_size_gib : 500
        node_quantity : 6
      }
      tiflash = {
        node_size : "8C64G"
        storage_size_gib : 500
        node_quantity : 2
      }
    }
```

> Execute `terraform apply` and type `yes` after check:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the `terraform apply` command and type `yes` after check:
```

              ~ tidb    = {
                  ~ node_quantity = 1 -> 2
                    # (1 unchanged attribute hidden)
                }
              ~ tiflash = {
                  ~ node_quantity    = 1 -> 2
                    # (2 unchanged attributes hidden)
                }
              ~ tikv    = {
                  ~ node_quantity    = 3 -> 6
                    # (2 unchanged attributes hidden)
                }
            }
            # (3 unchanged attributes hidden)
        }
        id             = "1379661944630234067"
        name           = "firstCluster"
      ~ status         = "AVAILABLE" -> (known after apply)
        # (4 unchanged attributes hidden)
    }

Plan: 0 to add, 1 to change, 0 to destroy.

Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value: yes

tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Modifying... [id=1379661944630234067]
tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Modifications complete after 2s [id=1379661944630234067]

Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 1 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

Wait for the status from `MODIFYING` to `AVAILABLE`.

> **Pause or resume the cluster**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Pause or resume a cluster
```

> The cluster can also be paused when the status is `AVAILABLE` or be resumed when the status is `PAUSED`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can pause a cluster when its status is `AVAILABLE` or resume a cluster when its status is `PAUSED`.
```

> - set `paused = true` to pause the cluster
> - set `paused = false` to resume the cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set `paused = true` to pause a cluster
- Set `paused = false` to resume a cluster
```

```
config = {
    paused = true
    root_password = "Your_root_password1."
    port          = 4000
    ...
  }
```

> execute `terraform apply` and type `yes` after check:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the `terraform apply` command and type `yes` after check:
```

```

Use the `terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster` to check the status:

```
$ terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster

# tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster:
resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "example_cluster" {
    cloud_provider = "AWS"
    cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
    config         = {
        components     = {
            tidb    = {
                node_quantity = 2
                node_size     = "8C16G"
            }
            tiflash = {
                node_quantity    = 2
                node_size        = "8C64G"
                storage_size_gib = 500
            }
            tikv    = {
                node_quantity    = 6
                node_size        = "8C32G"
                storage_size_gib = 500
            }
        }
        ip_access_list = [
            # (1 unchanged element hidden)
        ]
        paused         = true
        port           = 4000
        root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
    }
    id             = "1379661944630234067"
    name           = "firstCluster"
    project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
    region         = "eu-central-1"
    status         = "PAUSED"
}
```

> Now, resume the cluster by set `paused = false`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, resume the cluster by setting `paused = false`:
```

```
config = {
    paused = false
    root_password = "Your_root_password1."
    port          = 4000
    ...
  }
```

> After apply you will find the status turns to `RESUMING`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After `apply`, you will find the status turns to `RESUMING`:
```

```
# tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster:
resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "example_cluster" {
    cloud_provider = "AWS"
    cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
    config         = {
        components     = {
            tidb    = {
                node_quantity = 2
                node_size     = "8C16G"
            }
            tiflash = {
                node_quantity    = 2
                node_size        = "8C64G"
                storage_size_gib = 500
            }
            tikv    = {
                node_quantity    = 6
                node_size        = "8C32G"
                storage_size_gib = 500
            }
        }
        ip_access_list = [
            # (1 unchanged element hidden)
        ]
        paused         = false
        port           = 4000
        root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
    }
    id             = "1379661944630234067"
    name           = "firstCluster"
    project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
    region         = "eu-central-1"
    status         = "RESUMING"
}
```

Wait for a moment, the status will be changed to `AVAILABLE` again.

> > You have created and managed a dedicated cluster with terraform now. Next, you will create a backup for the cluster by the [backup resource](/tidb-cloud/terraform/backup-resource.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you have created and managed a Dedicated Tier cluster with Terraform. Next, you can create a backup of the cluster by the [backup resource](/tidb-cloud/terraform/backup-resource.md).
```

---
title: Cluster Resource
summary: Learn how to use cluster resource
---

# Cluster Resource

> **Note:**
>
> Make sure you have followed the instructions in [Get TiDB Cloud Terraform provider](/tidb-cloud/terraform/tidbcloud-provider.md).

> ## Get projectId with project data source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Get projectId from project data source
```

> Let us get all the projects by project data source first:

Author: 这部分没有明显的顺序关系，只需要一个命令执行即可

      {
        "node_quantity_range" = {
          "min" = 3
          "step" = 3
        }
        "node_size" = "16C64G"
        "storage_size_gib_range" = {
          "max" = 4096
          "min" = 500
        }
      },
    ])
  }
```

- `cloud_provider` is the cloud provider on which your TiDB cluster is hosted.
- `region` is the region of `cloud_provider`.
- `node_quantity_range` shows the min quantity of the node and the step if you want to scale the node.
- `node_size` is the size of a node.
- `storage_size_gib_range` shows the minimum and maximum storage size you can set for a node.

## Create a Dedicated Tier with cluster resource

> Before you begin, make sure you have set a Project CIDR on the TiDB Cloud console.

Then, you can create a Dedicated Tier cluster with the projectId and the spec info:

- Use the `resource` block to define the resource of TiDB Cloud. It consists of the resource type and the resource name. In this example, the resource type is `tidbcloud_cluster` and the name is `example_cluster`.

You can find all the supported configurations for the data sources and resources [here](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest/docs)

> Taking `tidbcloud_cluster` as an example:

Author: 这里写的不太好理解,已修改

                 ~ tikv    = {
                     ~ node_quantity    = 3 -> 6
                       # (2 unchanged attributes hidden)
                   }
               }
               # (3 unchanged attributes hidden)
           }
           id             = "1379661944630234067"
           name           = "firstCluster"
         ~ status         = "AVAILABLE" -> (known after apply)
           # (4 unchanged attributes hidden)
       }
   
   Plan: 0 to add, 1 to change, 0 to destroy.
   
   Do you want to perform these actions?
     Terraform will perform the actions described above.
     Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.
   
     Enter a value: yes
   
   tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Modifying... [id=1379661944630234067]
   tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Modifications complete after 2s [id=1379661944630234067]
   
   Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 1 changed, 0 destroyed.
   ```

Wait for the status from `MODIFYING` to `AVAILABLE`.

### Pause or resume a cluster

You can pause a cluster when its status is `AVAILABLE` or resume a cluster when its status is `PAUSED`.

- Set `paused = true` to pause a cluster.
- Set `paused = false` to resume a cluster.

> 1. pause a cluster with the following config:

Author: 需要上文的 cluster resource 的配置文件

> 1. pause a cluster with the following config:

Author: 我加一句说明是修改现有的

   ```
   # tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster:
   resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "example_cluster" {
       cloud_provider = "AWS"
       cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
       config         = {
           components     = {
               tidb    = {
                   node_quantity = 2
                   node_size     = "8C16G"
               }
               tiflash = {
                   node_quantity    = 2
                   node_size        = "8C64G"
                   storage_size_gib = 500
               }
               tikv    = {
                   node_quantity    = 6
                   node_size        = "8C32G"
                   storage_size_gib = 500
               }
           }
           ip_access_list = [
               # (1 unchanged element hidden)
           ]
           paused         = false
           port           = 4000
           root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
       }
       id             = "1379661944630234067"
       name           = "firstCluster"
       project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
       region         = "eu-central-1"
       status         = "RESUMING"
   }
   ```

> 6. Wait for a moment, the status will be changed to `AVAILABLE` again.

Author: 需要

---
title: Cluster Resource
summary: Learn how to use cluster resource
---

# Cluster Resource

You can learn how to create and modify a TiDB Cloud cluster with cluster resource in this document.

Besides, you will also learn how to get the necessary information from project data source and cluster-spec data source in this document.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you need to [Get TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](/tidb-cloud/terraform/tidbcloud-provider.md) first.

> ## Get project ID from project data source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get project ID from the project data source
```

> 

Reviewer: 这个小节的前提条件是用户需要先完成以下步骤。是否可以在文档里说明下呢？ 

1. 注册 TiDB Cloud 账号。 
2. 登陆到 TiDB Cloud 里找到默认的 project 名字或者新建 project，得到 project name。 或者用户是否可以直接通过 Terraform 列出所有的 project 名字呢？

Author: 可以直接得到名字的

Reviewer: 如何得到名字呢，可以在文档里提供下步骤吗？

Author: 下文 output 里面已经有名字了

Let us get all the projects by project data source first, Create a main.tf file:

> - Use the `data` block to define the data source of TiDB Cloud. It consists of the data source type and the data source name. In this example, the data source type is `tidbcloud_project` and the name is `example_project`. The prefix of the type maps to the name of the provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the `data` block to define the data source of TiDB Cloud, including the data source type and the data source name. For example, to define the project data source, you need to specify the type name as `tidbcloud_project` and the data source name as your project name.
```

---
title: Cluster Resource
summary: Learn how to use cluster resource
---

# Cluster Resource

> **Note:**
>
> Please [Get TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](/tidb-cloud/terraform/tidbcloud-provider.md) first.

You can learn how to create and modify a TiDB Cloud cluster with cluster resource in this document.

Besides, you will also learn how to get the necessary information from project data source and cluster-spec data source in this document.

## Get projectId from project data source

Let us get all the projects by project data source first:

- Use the `data` block to define the data source of TiDB Cloud. It consists of the data source type and the data source name. In this example, the data source type is `tidbcloud_project` and the name is `example_project`. The prefix of the type maps to the name of the provider.
- Use the `output` block to get the information, and expose the information for other Terraform configurations to use. It works similarly to returned values in programming languages. See [Terraform documentation](https://www.terraform.io/language/values/outputs) for more details.

> By the way, you can find all the supported configurations for the data sources and resources [here](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest/docs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all the supported configurations for the data sources and resources [here](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest/docs).
```

> ```

Author: 是的，我在这加了一句新建一个 main.tf

terraform {
  required_providers {
    tidbcloud = {
      source = "tidbcloud/tidbcloud"
      version = "~> 0.0.1"
    }
  }
  required_version = ">= 1.0.0"
}

provider "tidbcloud" {
  username = "fake_username"
  password = "fake_password"
}

data "tidbcloud_project" "example_project" {
  page      = 1
  page_size = 10
}

output "projects" {
  value = data.tidbcloud_project.example_project.items
}
```

Run `terraform apply` command to apply the configurations. You need to type `yes` at the confirmation prompt to proceed.

To skip the prompt, use `terraform apply --auto-approve`:

<details>
<summary>project outputs</summary>
<pre><code>

> $ terraform apply --auto-approve

Author: 这里是 datasource ，不是 resource。只有 resource  不推荐

      + {
          + cluster_count    = 0
          + create_timestamp = "1649154426"
          + id               = "1372813089191121286"
          + name             = "test1"
          + org_id           = "1372813089189921287"
          + user_count       = 1
        },
      + {
          + cluster_count    = 1
          + create_timestamp = "1640602740"
          + id               = "1372813089189561287"
          + name             = "default project"
          + org_id           = "1372813089189921287"
          + user_count       = 1
        },
    ]

You can apply this plan to save these new output values to the Terraform state, without changing any real infrastructure.

Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

projects = tolist([
  {
    "cluster_count" = 0
    "create_timestamp" = "1649154426"
    "id" = "1372813089191121286"
    "name" = "test1"
    "org_id" = "1372813089189921287"
    "user_count" = 1
  },
  {
    "cluster_count" = 1
    "create_timestamp" = "1640602740"
    "id" = "1372813089189561287"
    "name" = "default project"
    "org_id" = "1372813089189921287"
    "user_count" = 1
  },
])
</code></pre>
</details>

> Now, you will get all the available projects, copy one of the projectId you need. Here we use the default project's ID.

Reviewer: 这里写了 "Here we use the default project's ID."， default project's ID 是 "1372813089191121286" 吗？ 但是创建 集群里的示例里用的是 “1372813089189561287"

Reviewer 3: 每个账号的 default project ID 不一样，所以应该是一个代指这里。

Author: 我感觉删了算了，让用户用自己需要的就行了

## Get cluster specification information with cluster-spec data source

Before creating a TiDB cluster, you may need to get the available configuration values (cloud providers, regions, and so on.) by the cluster-spec data source:

> ```

Reviewer: 下面的配置里，哪些值是用户可以修改的，哪些不是呢

Author: 这里的用法和上文 project datasource 用法是一样的，且已经介绍过了。所以我就没有具体再介绍各个部分，你觉得是否合理呢？

Reviewer: 作为不太熟悉 Terraform 的用户，这里可能不太明白，是需要再新建一个 `xxx.tf` 文件吗？然后里面放的完整的配置是哪些呢？ 或许给出完整的配置示例对用户复制粘贴更方便

data "tidbcloud_cluster_spec" "example_cluster_spec" {
}

output "cluster_spec" {
  value = data.tidbcloud_cluster_spec.example_cluster_spec.items
}
```

Run the `terraform apply --auto-approve` command and you will get all the specifications. 

The following is a part of the results for your reference.

<details>

> <summary>cluster specification</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary>Cluster specification</summary>
```

<pre><code>

> {

Reviewer: 请问这里的结果是已经创建的集群的信息吗？没有在这里看到新建集群可以配置哪些值呢

Author: 这里的结果是可用于配置集群的某些配置项的值。比如
```
"node_quantity_range" = {
          "min" = 1
          "step" = 1
        }
```
表示最小值是1，增减步长为1（所以可以配成1，2，3 ...）

Reviewer: 这三个可以看到可配置的值吗？

  "cloud_provider" = "AWS"
    "cluster_type" = "DEDICATED"
    "region" = "eu-central-1"

      },
    ])
    "tikv" = tolist([
      {
        "node_quantity_range" = {
          "min" = 3
          "step" = 3
        }
        "node_size" = "2C8G"
        "storage_size_gib_range" = {
          "max" = 500
          "min" = 200
        }
      },
      {
        "node_quantity_range" = {
          "min" = 3
          "step" = 3
        }
        "node_size" = "4C16G"
        "storage_size_gib_range" = {
          "max" = 2048
          "min" = 200
        }
      },
      {
        "node_quantity_range" = {
          "min" = 3
          "step" = 3
        }
        "node_size" = "8C32G"
        "storage_size_gib_range" = {
          "max" = 4096
          "min" = 500
        }
      },
      {
        "node_quantity_range" = {
          "min" = 3
          "step" = 3
        }
        "node_size" = "8C64G"
        "storage_size_gib_range" = {
          "max" = 4096
          "min" = 500
        }
      },
      {
        "node_quantity_range" = {
          "min" = 3
          "step" = 3
        }
        "node_size" = "16C64G"
        "storage_size_gib_range" = {
          "max" = 4096
          "min" = 500
        }
      },
    ])
  }
</code></pre>
</details>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In the results:
```

- `cloud_provider` is the cloud provider on which your TiDB cluster is hosted.
- `region` is the region of `cloud_provider`.
- `node_quantity_range` shows the minimum quantity of the node and the step if you want to scale the node.
- `node_size` is the size of a node.
- `storage_size_gib_range` shows the minimum and maximum storage size you can set for a node.

## Create a Dedicated Tier with cluster resource

> **Note:**
>

> > Before you begin, make sure that you have set a Project CIDR in the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Before you begin, make sure that you have set a Project CIDR in the TiDB Cloud console. For more information, see [Set a Project CIDR](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md#prerequisite-set-a-project-cidr).
```

> Then, you can create a Dedicated Tier cluster with the projectId and the spec info using cluster resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, you can create a Dedicated Tier cluster with the Project ID and the spec info using cluster resource.
```

              + components     = {
                  + tidb = {
                      + node_quantity = 1
                      + node_size     = "8C16G"
                    }
                  + tikv = {
                      + node_quantity    = 3
                      + node_size        = "8C32G"
                      + storage_size_gib = 500
                    }
                }
              + ip_access_list = [
                  + {
                      + cidr        = "0.0.0.0/0"
                      + description = "all"
                    },
                ]
              + port           = 4000
              + root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
            }
          + id             = (known after apply)
          + name           = "firstCluster"
          + project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
          + region         = "eu-central-1"
          + status         = (known after apply)
        }
    
    Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
    
    Do you want to perform these actions?
      Terraform will perform the actions described above.
      Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.
    
      Enter a value: 
    ```

>     Terraform will generate an execution plan for you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    As in the above result, Terraform generates an execution plan for you:
```

   - You can check the difference between the configurations and the states.
   - You can also see the results of this `apply`. It will add a new resource, and no resource will be changed or destroyed.
   - The `known after apply` shows that you will get the value after `apply`.

> 3. If everything is in your plan, type `yes` to continue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If everything looks fine in your plan, type `yes` to continue:
```

    ```shell
    $ terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster
    
    # tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster:
    resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "example_cluster" {
        cloud_provider = "AWS"
        cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
        config         = {
            components     = {
                tidb = {
                    node_quantity = 1
                    node_size     = "8C16G"
                }
                tikv = {
                    node_quantity    = 3
                    node_size        = "8C32G"
                    storage_size_gib = 500
                }
            }
            ip_access_list = [
                # (1 unchanged element hidden)
            ]
            port           = 4000
            root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
        }
        id             = "1379661944630234067"
        name           = "firstCluster"
        project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
        region         = "eu-central-1"
        status         = "CREATING"
    }
    ```

    The status of the cluster is `CREATING`. In this case, you need to wait until it changes to `AVAILABLE`, which usually takes 10 minutes at least.

> 5. If you want to check the latest status, run the `terraform refresh` command to update the state, and then run the `terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster` command to display the status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If you want to check the latest status, run the `terraform refresh` command to update the state, and then run the `terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster` command to display the state.
```

    ```
    $ terraform refresh
    
    tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Refreshing state... [id=1379661944630234067]
    
    $ terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluste
    
    # tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster:
    resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "example_cluster" {
        cloud_provider = "AWS"
        cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
        config         = {
            components     = {
                tidb = {
                    node_quantity = 1
                    node_size     = "8C16G"
                }
                tikv = {
                    node_quantity    = 3
                    node_size        = "8C32G"
                    storage_size_gib = 500
                }
            }
            ip_access_list = [
                # (1 unchanged element hidden)
            ]
            port           = 4000
            root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
        }
        id             = "1379661944630234067"
        name           = "firstCluster"
        project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
        region         = "eu-central-1"
        status         = "AVAILABLE"
    }
    ```

Congratulations. Your cluster is available now.

> ## Modify the Dedicated Tier cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Modify a Dedicated Tier cluster
```

> You can use Terraform to manage cluster resources as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a Dedicated Tier cluster, you can use Terraform to manage cluster resources as follows:
```

> - Increase TiFlash component for the dedicated cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a TiFlash component to the cluster.
```

- Scale the TiDB cluster.
- Pause or resume the cluster.

> ### Increase TiFlash component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add a TiFlash component
```

1. Add TiFlash configuration in components:

    ```
        components = {
          tidb = {
            node_size : "8C16G"
            node_quantity : 1
          }
          tikv = {
            node_size : "8C32G"
            storage_size_gib : 500
            node_quantity : 3
          }
          tiflash = {
            node_size : "8C64G"
            storage_size_gib : 500
            node_quantity : 1
          }
        }
    ```

> 2. Run `terraform apply` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the `terraform apply` command:
```

      ~ update in-place
    
    Terraform will perform the following actions:
    
      # tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster will be updated in-place
      ~ resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "example_cluster" {
          ~ config         = {
              ~ components     = {
                  + tiflash = {
                      + node_quantity    = 1
                      + node_size        = "8C64G"
                      + storage_size_gib = 500
                    }
                    # (2 unchanged attributes hidden)
                }
                # (3 unchanged attributes hidden)
            }
            id             = "1379661944630234067"
            name           = "firstCluster"
          ~ status         = "AVAILABLE" -> (known after apply)
            # (4 unchanged attributes hidden)
        }
    
    Plan: 0 to add, 1 to change, 0 to destroy.
    
    Do you want to perform these actions?
      Terraform will perform the actions described above.
      Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.
    
      Enter a value: 
    
    ```

> 3. By checking the plan, you will find that TiFlash is added. And one resource will be changed after `terraform apply`. Then type `yes` to confirm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    As in the above execution plan, TiFlash will be added, and one resource will be changed after `terraform apply`. 

3. If everything in the execution plan looks fine, type `yes` to confirm:
```

        config         = {
            components     = {
                tidb    = {
                    node_quantity = 1
                    node_size     = "8C16G"
                }
                tiflash = {
                    node_quantity    = 1
                    node_size        = "8C64G"
                    storage_size_gib = 500
                }
                tikv    = {
                    node_quantity    = 3
                    node_size        = "8C32G"
                    storage_size_gib = 500
                }
            }
            ip_access_list = [
                # (1 unchanged element hidden)
            ]
            port           = 4000
            root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
        }
        id             = "1379661944630234067"
        name           = "firstCluster"
        project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
        region         = "eu-central-1"
        status         = "MODIFYING"
    }
    ```

The `MODIFYING` status indicates that the cluster is changing now. Wait for a moment. The status will be changed to `AVAILABLE`.

### Scale a TiDB cluster

You can scale a TiDB cluster when its status is `AVAILABLE`.

> 1. For example, to add 1 node for TiDB, 3 nodes for TiKV (TiKV needs to add at least 3 nodes for its step is 3, you can get this information in cluster-spec data source), and 1 node for TiFlash, you can update the configurations as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For example, to add 1 node for TiDB, 3 nodes for TiKV (TiKV needs to add at least 3 nodes for its step is 3. You can get this information in cluster-spec data source), and 1 node for TiFlash, you can update the configurations as follows:
```

---
title: Cluster Resource
summary: Learn how to use cluster resource
---

# Cluster Resource

You can learn how to create and modify a TiDB Cloud cluster with cluster resource in this document.

Besides, you will also learn how to get the necessary information from project data source and cluster-spec data source in this document.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you need to [get TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](/tidb-cloud/terraform/tidbcloud-provider.md) first.

## Get project ID from the project data source

You can get all the projects by project data source first. 

1. Create a `main.tf` file:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Use the `data` block to define the data source of TiDB Cloud, including the data source type and the data source name. For example, to define the project data source, you need to specify the type name as `tidbcloud_project` and the data source name as your project name.

Reviewer: L23 - L52 需要缩进四个空格

- Use the `output` block to get the information, and expose the information for other Terraform configurations to use. It works similarly to returned values in programming languages. See [Terraform documentation](https://www.terraform.io/language/values/outputs) for more details.

You can find all the supported configurations for the data sources and resources [here](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest/docs).

```
terraform {
  required_providers {
    tidbcloud = {
      source = "tidbcloud/tidbcloud"
      version = "~> 0.0.1"
    }
  }
  required_version = ">= 1.0.0"
}

provider "tidbcloud" {
  username = "fake_username"
  password = "fake_password"
}

data "tidbcloud_project" "example_project" {
  page      = 1
  page_size = 10
}

output "projects" {
  value = data.tidbcloud_project.example_project.items
}
```

2. Run the `terraform apply` command to apply the configurations. You need to type `yes` at the confirmation prompt to proceed.

> To skip the prompt, use `terraform apply --auto-approve`:

Reviewer: L56 - L107 需要缩进四个空格

  + projects = [
      + {
          + cluster_count    = 0
          + create_timestamp = "1649154426"
          + id               = "1372813089191121286"
          + name             = "test1"
          + org_id           = "1372813089189921287"
          + user_count       = 1
        },
      + {
          + cluster_count    = 1
          + create_timestamp = "1640602740"
          + id               = "1372813089189561287"
          + name             = "default project"
          + org_id           = "1372813089189921287"
          + user_count       = 1
        },
    ]

You can apply this plan to save these new output values to the Terraform state, without changing any real infrastructure.

Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

projects = tolist([
  {
    "cluster_count" = 0
    "create_timestamp" = "1649154426"
    "id" = "1372813089191121286"
    "name" = "test1"
    "org_id" = "1372813089189921287"
    "user_count" = 1
  },
  {
    "cluster_count" = 1
    "create_timestamp" = "1640602740"
    "id" = "1372813089189561287"
    "name" = "default project"
    "org_id" = "1372813089189921287"
    "user_count" = 1
  },
])
```

> Now, you will get all the available projects, copy one of the projectId you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can get all the available projects from the output. Copy one of the project IDs that you need.
```

        cloud_provider = "AWS"
        cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
        config         = {
            components     = {
                tidb = {
                    node_quantity = 1
                    node_size     = "8C16G"
                }
                tikv = {
                    node_quantity    = 3
                    node_size        = "8C32G"
                    storage_size_gib = 500
                }
            }
            ip_access_list = [
                # (1 unchanged element hidden)
            ]
            port           = 4000
            root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
        }
        id             = "1379661944630234067"
        name           = "firstCluster"
        project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
        region         = "eu-central-1"
        status         = "AVAILABLE"
    }
    ```

Congratulations. Your cluster is available now.

## Modify a Dedicated Tier cluster

For a Dedicated Tier cluster, you can use Terraform to manage cluster resources as follows:

- Add a TiFlash component to the cluster.
- Scale the TiDB cluster.
- Pause or resume the cluster.

### Add a TiFlash component

> 1. Add TiFlash configuration in components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add TiFlash configuration in `components`:
```

              + components     = {
                  + tidb = {
                      + node_quantity = 1
                      + node_size     = "8C16G"
                    }
                  + tikv = {
                      + node_quantity    = 3
                      + node_size        = "8C32G"
                      + storage_size_gib = 500
                    }
                }
              + ip_access_list = [
                  + {
                      + cidr        = "0.0.0.0/0"
                      + description = "all"
                    },
                ]
              + port           = 4000
              + root_password  = "Your_root_password1."
            }
          + id             = (known after apply)
          + name           = "firstCluster"
          + project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
          + region         = "eu-central-1"
          + status         = (known after apply)
        }
    
    Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
    
    Do you want to perform these actions?
      Terraform will perform the actions described above.
      Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.
    
      Enter a value: 
    ```

>    As in the above result, Terraform generates generate an execution plan for you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   As in the above result, Terraform generates an execution plan for you, which describes the actions Terraform will take:
```

                 ~ tikv    = {
                     ~ node_quantity    = 3 -> 6
                       # (2 unchanged attributes hidden)
                   }
               }
               # (3 unchanged attributes hidden)
           }
           id             = "1379661944630234067"
           name           = "firstCluster"
         ~ status         = "AVAILABLE" -> (known after apply)
           # (4 unchanged attributes hidden)
       }
   
   Plan: 0 to add, 1 to change, 0 to destroy.
   
   Do you want to perform these actions?
     Terraform will perform the actions described above.
     Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.
   
     Enter a value: yes
   
   tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Modifying... [id=1379661944630234067]
   tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Modifications complete after 2s [id=1379661944630234067]
   
   Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 1 changed, 0 destroyed.
   ```

Wait for the status from `MODIFYING` to `AVAILABLE`.

### Pause or resume a cluster

You can pause a cluster when its status is `AVAILABLE` or resume a cluster when its status is `PAUSED`.

- Set `paused = true` to pause a cluster.
- Set `paused = false` to resume a cluster.

> 1. Add the `pause = true` into config in the cluster resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the `pause = true` into the `config` field of the cluster resource:
```
